# 08/3/2024 
<a href="https://devooty.dev">Home</a>
## Where I've Been!
  Hey! I have no idea how to start these off, so I'll just jump right into it. I've been working on learning Zig and emulation. Zig will likely be be my language of choice for most of my projects. I'm pulling the trigger on Zig because I wanted a modern systems programming language. It was between Zig, Go, or Rust. I didn't pickup go immediately, even though I intend to, due to the fact that it's not low level enough. The language was designed with a garbage collector in mind.
## Why I didn't choose Rust
  I was driven away  from Rust because of the community. Rustaceans are absolutely obnoxious. Moreover, the language is extremely difficult and unorthodox due to the compiler with its borrow checker. The dagger for my decision is that from what I hear, it seems like you don't  manually manage memory in Rust, and the heap and stack variables are intuitive. It seems like you need to know the language Intimately in order to code good Rust. I'm not a fan of this methodology/ideology.  I hear people say "Go is a language designed for bad programmers.", and I think that is brilliant. Go is easy, productive, and readable. Overall, Go is performant, and extremely fast for a garbage collected language. People get into the idea of greater complexity always equating to more control and "more harder equals more better", but what happens when great control meets simplicity? You get a language like Zig: a systems level language that places an emphasis on explicit control, verbosity, and simplicity.
## Why I Picked Zig
  While Rust is often viewed as a  C++ replacement, Zig poises itself to become a C replacement. A key selling point is one of Zig's motto's: "Maintain It with Zig". They achieve this with their seamless integration with C/C++. It's very easy to link against libc, and extremely easy to build C/C++ projects with the Zig build tool. I picked Zig because of its modern features like error unions and its focus on orthodox memory management with high level control. it is a young language that hasn't hit 1.0 yet, but its ability to  seamlessly integrate the C/C++ ecosystem fills in the gaps where needed.
## Project 
```
pub const chip8 = struct {
    memory: [4096]u8 = undefined,
    pc: u16 = 512,
    index: u16 = 0,
    display: [32][64]u1 = undefined,
    stack: std.ArrayList(u16),
    delay: u8 = 0,
    sound: u8 = 0,
    registers: [16]u8 = undefined,
    keypad: [16]u1 = undefined,
```
  Now that I have the perfect language, I need the perfect project to learn it. What are unique and fun ways that a systemms programming language be used? Embedded? Sure, but no. I tried doing embedded C++, and trying to get platformio to work with nvim was an absolute annoyance. FTP Server? Fun, but RFC's are soooo damn long and I couldn't decipher communication on the control port. Emulation? Maybe??? That sounds hard, but it also sounds like a fun learning experience. 
## How does emulation even work?
  Well, emulation is just simply, or not so simply, using software to represent hardware that programs can run on, so non-native programs can be translated to something that can be understood natively. For example, a DS emulator will represent DS hardware and translate instructions from a ROM into native instructions like x86. I will go into further detail within the blog post for my Chip8 project.
## What I've been working on
  As you can tell, I've been working on an Emulator. I decided to start simple with a Chip8 interpreter/emulator because I wanted to insure that this is a project that I will complete. I really need to put projects into my portfolio, and this is the perfect domain for me because of my interest in Computer Architecture. Its like designing hardware without the hardware! Next blog post coming soon!
